README.md, before:

# Intro

This is a collection of examples showing how to combine offline compilation of cuda kernels with runtime LTO linking ( instead of compile time linking ).

## Offline model of `<<< >>>` kernel launches

When using `<<< >>>` to launch kernels the entire program is required to be known
offline either when compiling ( whole compilation ) or linking ( separable compilation).


## NVRTC model

In a full nvrtc model kernels are compiled at runtime but from CUDA/C++ code. This model is very similar to the OpenGL shader compilation pipeline. But instead of being restricted to GLSL language you have full access to C++.

Some of the strengths of nvrtc are:
  - You only compile the exact kernels that you launch
  - You can compose with user defined nvrtc code
  - You only need to code-gen for the exact GPU you are on

Some of the downsides of nvrtc are:
  - You need to write lots of glue code to go from code fragments to a kernel
  - You are compiling C++ files at runtime which can have significantly high
  compile time overheads
  - You need to ship any C++ headers your kernels depend on

Note:

Lots of the downsides of nvrtc are mitigated by projects like https://github.com/NVIDIA/jitify

## Runtime LTO model

The runtime LTO model was first outlined in https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/cuda-12-0-compiler-support-for-runtime-lto-using-nvjitlink-library/ .

The strength of this model is that it allows for composibility of iteration/access and computation. We can build components as LTO-IR when performance is critical ( or compile times are long ) but still have other components generated by

For example we can compile the following CUDA kernel(2 float in, 1 float) as an LTO-IR fragment:
```cpp

extern __device__ float compute(float x, float y, float &r);

extern "C" __global__ void kernel(float* x, float* y, float* r, size_t n) {
  auto tidx = common::grid_1d::global_thread_id();
  auto const stride = common::grid_1d::grid_stride();
  while (tidx < n) {
    compute(x[tidx], y[tidx], z[tidx]);
    tidx += stride;
  }
}
```
That would allow us to slot in at runtime different `compute` algorithms such as
`saxpy`, `min`, `max`, and so on. Therefore we keep our


# Examples

### [Hello World](./src/hello_world)
This is the starting point for understanding runtime linking a single offline compiled
FATBINs (with LTO-IR code)


### [SAXPY](./src/saxpy)

This example uses saxpy as a way to show multiple new features:

  - Link together multiple LTO-IR fatbins
  - Show how to re-use the same iteration kernel for different computation


### [Advanced Composition](./src/adv_kernel_launch)

The advanced example takes the saxpy example and generalizes the logic a step further
and adds in two major new features:

  - Shows how to mix fatbins and nvrtc fragments
  - Shows how to launch kernels based on the input datatype ( float vs double )

Commit message:

Add mandlebrot as a proxy for a compute bound workload

README.md, after:

# Intro

This is a collection of examples showing how to combine offline compilation of cuda kernels with runtime LTO linking ( instead of compile time linking ).

## Offline model of `<<< >>>` kernel launches

When using `<<< >>>` to launch kernels the entire program is required to be known
offline either when compiling ( whole compilation ) or linking ( separable compilation).


## NVRTC model

In a full nvrtc model kernels are compiled at runtime but from CUDA/C++ code. This model is very similar to the OpenGL shader compilation pipeline. But instead of being restricted to GLSL language you have full access to C++.

Some of the strengths of nvrtc are:
  - You only compile the exact kernels that you launch
  - You can compose with user defined nvrtc code
  - You only need to code-gen for the exact GPU you are on

Some of the downsides of nvrtc are:
  - You need to write lots of glue code to go from code fragments to a kernel
  - You are compiling C++ files at runtime which can have significantly high
  compile time overheads
  - You need to ship any C++ headers your kernels depend on

Note:

Lots of the downsides of nvrtc are mitigated by projects like https://github.com/NVIDIA/jitify

## Runtime LTO model

The runtime LTO model was first outlined in https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/cuda-12-0-compiler-support-for-runtime-lto-using-nvjitlink-library/ .

The strength of this model is that it allows for composibility of iteration/access and computation. We can build components as LTO-IR when performance is critical ( or compile times are long ) but still have other components generated by

For example we can compile the following CUDA kernel(2 float in, 1 float) as an LTO-IR fragment:
```cpp

extern __device__ float compute(float x, float y, float &r);

extern "C" __global__ void kernel(float* x, float* y, float* r, size_t n) {
  auto tidx = common::grid_1d::global_thread_id();
  auto const stride = common::grid_1d::grid_stride();
  while (tidx < n) {
    compute(x[tidx], y[tidx], z[tidx]);
    tidx += stride;
  }
}
```
That would allow us to slot in at runtime different `compute` algorithms such as
`saxpy`, `min`, `max`, and so on. Therefore we keep our


# Examples

### [Hello World](./src/hello_world)
This is the starting point for understanding runtime linking a single offline compiled
FATBINs (with LTO-IR code)


### [SAXPY](./src/saxpy)

This example uses saxpy as a way to show multiple new features:

  - Link together multiple LTO-IR fatbins
  - Show how to re-use the same iteration kernel for different computation


### [Mandlebrot](./src/mandlebrot)

All of the algorithms in the saxpy example are memory bandwidth bound. So this example
shows how viable LTO-IR fragments are for compute bounds algorithms. For this our proxy is mandlebrot

  - Shows how to compose lto-ir fatbins for compute bound problems


### [Advanced Composition](./src/adv_kernel_launch)

The advanced example takes the saxpy example and generalizes the logic a step further
and adds in two major new features:

  - Shows how to mix fatbins and nvrtc fragments
  - Shows how to launch kernels based on the input datatype ( float vs double )
